  There is a time in every man's education when he arrives at the conviction that envy is ignorance; that imitation is suicide; that he must take
himself for better for worse as his portion; thay though the wide universe is fu of good, no kernel of nourishinf corn can come to him but through
his tooil bestowed on that plot of ground which is given to him to till. The power which resides in him is new in nature,
and none but he knows what that is which he can do, nor does he know until he has tried. Not for nothing one face, one 
character, one fact, makes much impression on him, and another none. This sclpture in the memory is not without 
pre-established harmony. The eye was placed where one ray should fall, that it might testify of that particular ray.
We but half express ourselves, and are ashamed of that divine idea which each of us represents. It may be safely trusted
as proportionate and of good issues, so it be faithfully imparted, but God will not have his work made manifest by cowards.
A man is relieved and gay when he has put his heart into his work and done his best; but what he has said or done otherwise
shall give him no peace. It is a deliverance which does not deliver. In the attempt his genius deserts him; no muse befriends;
no invention, no hope.
  Trust thyself; every heart vibrates to that iron string. Accept the place the divine providence has found for you, the 
society of your contemporaries, the connection of events. Great men have always doneso, and confided themselves childlike
to the genius of their age, betraying their perception that the absolutely trustworthy was seated at their heart, working
through their hands, predominating in all their being. And wo are now man, and must accept in the highest mind the same
transcendent destiny; and not minors and invalides in a protected corner, not cowards fleeing before a revolution, but 
guides, redeemers and benefactors, obeying the Almighty effort and advancing on Chaos and the Dark.
  What pretty oracles nature yields us on this text in the face and behavior of children, babes, and even brutes! That
divided and rebel mind, that distrust of a sentiment because our purpose, these have not. Their miind being whole, 
Their eye is as yet unconquered, conforms to nobody; all conform to it; so that one babe commonly makes four or five out 
of the adults who prattle and manhood no less with its own piquancy and charm, and made it enviable and gracious and its 
claims not to be put by, if it will stand by itself. Do not think the youth has no force, because he cannot speak to you
and me. Hark! in the next room his voice is sufficiently clear and emphatic. It seems he knows how to speak to his 
contemporarise. Bashful or bold then, he will know to make us seniors very unnecessary.
  The nonchalance of boys who are sure of a dinner, and would disdain as much as a lord to do or say aught to conciliate
one, is the healty attitude of human nature. A boy is in the parlor what the pit is in the playhouse; independent, irresponsible,
looking out form his corner on such people and facts as pass by, he tries and sentences them on their merits, in the swift,
summary way of boys, as good, bad, interesting, silly, eloquent, troublesome. He cumbers himself never about consequences, 
about consequences, about interests; he gives an independent, genuine verdict. You must court him; he does not court you.
But the man is as it were clapped into by his consciousness. As soon as he has once acted or spoken with 'eclat' he is 
a committed person, watched by the sympathy or the hatred of hundreds, whose affections must now enter into his account.
There is no Lethe for this. Ah, that he could pass again into his neutrality! Who can thus avoid all pledges and, 
having observed, ovserve again from the same unaffected, unbiased, unbribable, unaffrighted innocence, --must always be 
formidable. He would utter opinions on all passing afairs, which being seen to be not private but necessary, would sink 
like darts into the ear of men, and put them in fear.
These are the voices which we hear in solitude, but they grow faint and inaudible as we enter into the world. Society 
everywhere is in conspiracy against the manhood of every one of its members. Society is a joint-stock company, in which
the members agree, for the better securing of his bread to each shareholder, to surrender the liberty and culture of the
eater. The virtue in most requests is conformity. Self-reliance is its aversion. It loves not realities and creators, but
names and customs.
  Whoso would be a man, must be a nonconformist. He who would gather immortal palms must not be hindered by the name of 
goodness, but must explore if it be goodness. I remenber an answer which when quit young I was prompted to make to a valued 
adviser who was wont to importune me with the dear old doctrines of the church. On my saying,'What have I to do with the 
sacredness of traditions, if I live wholly from within?' my friend suggested, --'But these impulses may be from below, not 
from above.' I replied, 'They do not seem to me to be such; but if I am the Devil's child, I will live then from the Devil.' 
No law can be sacred to me but that of my nature. Good and bad are but names very readily transferable to that or this; 
the only right is what is after my constitution; the only wrong what is against it. A man is to carry himself in the persence 
of all opposition as if every thing were titular and ephemeral but he. I am ashamed to think how easily we capitulate to 
badges and names, to large societies and dead institutions. Every decent and well-spoken individual affects and sways me 
more than is right. I ought to go upright and vital, and speak the rude truth in all walls. If malice and vanity wear the 
coat of philanthropy, shall that pass? If an angle bigot assumes this bountiful cause of Abolition, and comes to me with 
his last news from Barbadoes, why should I not say to him, 'Go love thy infant; love thy wood-chopper; be good-natured and 
modest; have that grace; and never varnish your hard, uncharitable ambition with his incredible tenderness for black folk 
a thousand miles off. Thy love afar is spite at home.' Rough and graceless would be such greeting, but truth is handsomer 
than the affectation of love. Your goodness must have some edge to it, --else it is none. The doctrine of hatred must be 
preached, as the counteraction of the doctrian of love, when that pules and whines. I shun father and mother and wife and 
brother when my genius call me. I would write on the lintels of the door-post, Whim. I hope it is somewhat better than whim 
at last, but we cannot spend the day in explanation. Expect me not to show cause why I seek or why I exclude company. 
Then again, do not tell me, as a good man did today, of my obligation to put all pool men in good situations. Are they my 
poor? I tell thee, thou foolish philanthropist, that I grudge the dollar, the dime, the cent I give to such men as do not 
belong to me and to whom I do not belong. There is a class to persons to whom by all spiritual affinity I am bought and sold; 
for them I will go to prison if need be; but your miscellaneous popular charities; the education at college of fools; the 
building of meeting-houses to the vain end to which many now stand; alms to sots, and the thousand-fold Relief Societies;
--though I confess with shame I sometimes succumb and give the dollar, It is a wicked dollar, which by and by I shame have 
the manhood to withhold.
  Virtues are, in the popular estimate, rather the exception than the rule. There is the man and his virtues. Men do what
is called a good action, as some piece of courage or charity, much as they would pay a fine in expiation of daily non-appearance
on parade. Their works are done as an apology or extenuation of their living in the world, --as invalids and the insane 
pay a high board. Their virtues are penances. I do not wish to expiate, but to live. My life is for itself and not for a 
spectacle. I much prefer that it should be of a lower strain, so it be genuine and equal, than that it should be flittering
and unstendy. I wish it to be sound and sweet, and not need diet and bleeding. I ask primary evidence that you are a man, 
and refuse this appeal from the man to his actions. I know that for myself it makes no difference whether I do or forbear
those actions which are reckoned excellent. I cannot consent to pay for a privilege where I have intrinsic right. Few and 
mean and my gifts may be, I actually am, and do not need for my own assurance or the assurance of my fellows and secondary
testimony.
  What I must do is all that concerns me, not what the people think. This rule, equally arduous in actual and in intellectual
life, may serve for the whole distinction between greatness and meanesss. It is the harder because you will always find those
who think they know what is your duty better than you know it. It is easy in the world to live after the world's opinion;
it is easy in solitude to live after our own; but the great man is he who in the midst of the crowd keeps with perfect 
sweetness the independence of solitude.
  The objection to conforming to usages that have become dead to you is that it scatters your force. It loses your time
and blurs the impression of your character. If you maintain a dead church, contribute to a dead Bible-society, vote with a
great party either for the government or against it. spread your table like base house-keepers, --under all these screens I
have difficulty to detect the precise man you are. and of course so much force is withdrawn form your proper life. But do 
your work, and I shall know you. Do your work, and you shall reinforce yourself. A man must consider what a blind-man's-bluff
is this game of conformity. If I know your sect I anticipate your argument. I hear a preacher annouce for his text and topic
the expediency of one of the institutions of his church, Do I not know that with all this ostentation of examining the  
grounds of the institution he will do no such thing? Do I not know that he is pledges to himself not to look but at one side,
the permitted side, not as a man, but as a parish minister? He is a retained attorney, and these airs of the beach are the 
emptiest affectation. well, most men have bound their eyes with one or another handkerchief, and attached themselves to some
one of these communities of opinion. This conformity makes them not false in all particulars, authors of a few lies, but false
in all particulars. Their every truth is not quite truth. Their two is not the real two, their four not the real four; so
that every word they say chagrins us and we know not where to being set them right. meantime nature is not slow to equip us 
in the prison-uniform of the party to witch we adhere. We come to wear one cut of face and figure, and acquire by degrees 
the gentlest asinine expression. There is a mortifying experience in particular, which does not fail to wreak itself also
in the general history; I mean 'the foolish face of praise,' the forced smile which we put on in company which we do not 
feel at ease, in answer to conversation which does not insterest us. The muscles, not spontaneously moved but moved by a 
law usuriping wilfulness, grow tight about the outline of the face, with the most disagreeable sensation.
  For nonconformity the world whips you with its displeasure. And therefore a man must know how to estimate a sour face.
The by-standers look askance on him in the public street or in the friend's parlor. If this aversion had its origin in 
contempt and resistance like his own he might well go home with a sad countenance; but the sour faces of the multitude, 
like their sweet faces, have no deep cause, but are put on and off as the wind blows and a newspaper directs. Yet is the 
discontent of the multitude more formidable than that of the senate and the college. It is easy enough for a firm man who 
knows the world to brook the rage of the cultivated classes.their rage is decorous and prudent, for they are timid, as being 
very vulnerable themselves. But when to their feminine rage the indignation of the people is added, when the ignorant and 
the poor are aroused, when the unintelligent brute force that lies at the bottom of society is made to growl and mow, it 
discontent of the mult directs. Yet is the discontent of the cultivated classes. Their rage is decorous and prudent, for they
are timid, 
--JINGLE-+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---
	10	   20	     30        40        50        60        70        80        90       100       110       120 /
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
